Tweets about NLP

1) Happy to share our new paper accepted to @HpcaArchConf 2021.
We propose efficient algorithm-architecture codesign for Attention in NLP by removing computations and DRAM accesses of unimportant tokens & heads of the model in a cascade manner.
Thanks my advisor and collaborators!
---xxx---

2) Can't wait for this talk by Thomas Wolf (co-founder and Chief Science Officer at HuggingFace): "An introduction to transfer learning in NLP and HuggingFace".
Join us on October, 29 at 20:00, JST.
---xxx---

3) Antonis does great work in NLP for underserved languages, and is also a great advisor and one of the nicest people I know

Definitely reach out to him if you're looking to do graduate study on NLP for low-resource languages!
GMU Computer Science @GMUCompSci will not require the GRE for graduate program applications!
Reach out if you're interested in coming to GMU to work in #nlproc, as well as the many cool faculty that do robotics, software engineering, vision, data mining, and many other things

---xxx---

4) We are releasing mT5: A massively-multilingual version of T5 that supports over hundred languages!
mT5 was pre-trained on a multilingual version of C4 and achieves SoTA on many cross-lingual NLP tasks.
Pre-print: https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.11934
Code/models: http://goo.gle/mt5

---xxx---

5) I was looking for something like this: a survey of approaches for NLP in low-resource scenarios.
From distant supervision to data augmentation to meta-learning.
You will find it useful if you are working with low-resource languages.
by Hedderich et al.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.12309

---xxx---

6) Congrats to Lucy Havens and her co-authors on her paper at the Gender Bias in NLP Workshop at COLING 2020!
Situated Data, Situated Systems: A Methodology to Engage with Power Relations in Natural Language Processing Bias Research.
L. Havens, M. Terras, B. Bach, B. Alex

---xxx---

7) Basics Of Natural Language Processing in 10 Minutes!
Down pointing backhand index

Tokenization
Stopwords
Stemming
Lemmatizing
WordNet
...
Down pointing backhand index

https://hackernoon.com/the-basics-of-natural-language-processing-in-10-minutes-cs2c3tt6
by Abhay Parashar v/ @hackernoon


#NLP #MachineLearning #AI #Python #Coding #Chatbot

Cc @DeepLearn007
 @jblefevre60
 @JimMarous
 @SpirosMargaris
---xxx---

8) What Is Natural Language Processing?
Natural Language Processing, or NLP for short, is broadly defined as the automatic manipulation of natural language, like speech and text, by software.
The study of natural language processing has been around for more than 50 years and grew out of the field of linguistics with the rise of computers.
Natural language refers to the way we, humans, communicate with each other.
Namely, speech and text.
We are surrounded by text.
Think about how much text you see each day:

    Signs
    Menus
    Email
    SMS
    Web Pages
    and so much more…

The list is endless.
Now think about speech.
We may speak to each other, as a species, more than we write.
It may even be easier to learn to speak than to write.
Voice and text are how we communicate with each other.
Given the importance of this type of data, we must have methods to understand and reason about natural language, just like we do for other types of data.
---xxx---

9) looking for someone to work with on an NLP project.
And must be able well versed in how to deploy ML models within the AWS ecosystem, Docker, Kubernetes, MS Azure, GCP.
---xxx---

10) Asiya co-led our NLP team in the last 3 months researching and implementing machine translation model for oral communication of good agronomic practice to under-served farmers in their local language.
Her team's English-Hausa robo-caller will launch soon.
She is just cool!
---xxx---

11) Thank you God

2020 is the best year for a new way of my passion.
Most learnable year

Completed Level 1 NLP- NEURO LINGUISTIC PROGRAMMING Practitioners

Thank you Anupama mam for a great Gesture and learning.
#NLP

---xxx---

12) TachyHealth introduces the most advanced coding systems in the region, AiCode.
it will transform coding practices to be more efficient, more accurate, less error prone.
state of the art NLP techniques is used to develop the system and simple UI for a better experience.
---xxx---

13) Facebook AI NLP is hiring research interns for next year (summer 2021).
If you are pursuing your PhD in any NLP area, and have published in top-tier ML and NLP conferences, come and work with our talented scientists and engineers.
Send me a pm or comment here!
#NLProc

---xxx---

14) Natural Language Processing (NLP)

It's that time of the year again -- we are hiring research interns at @facebookai for summer 2021.
If you are pursuing a PhD in NLP and have published in top-tier ML/NLP conferences, join our talented scientists and engineers to work on challenging problems.
PM me or comment.
---xxx---

15) Day 53 of #66daysofdata: started the NLP course on Kaggle since I am going to need NLP for my twitter project.
I previously did some NLP but couldn't warp my head around it all the time.
Now I am quite positive since I have a goal in mind so I can directly implement what I learn.
---xxx---

16) Finished the final course in Coursera NLP Specialization!!
As an 'expert' I can now build a high-performance Reformer-based Chatbot capable of sophisticated dialogue such as...  ;-)

---xxx---

17) Quantiphi is hiring!!
Associate Technical Lead - Machine Learning

Location: Bangalore/Mumbai

Skills: ML, NLP, CV, Deep learning

Experience: 7-9 Years

Skills Required:
•Experience in customer-facing global delivery environment.
---xxx---

18) Increase your performance, create an empowering state of peace and calm.
End 2020 and jumpstart 2021.
Visualize, create and plan the 2021 of your dreams

Click http://olcang.com/nlp to get a 20% discount to register for our 3-Day Self Mastery class OR 8-Day NLP Certification.
---xxx---

19) It’s amazing how @huggingface, in their own words, are solving NLP one commit at a time.
Wider and faster  adoption of #DeepLearning for #NLProc is becoming more and more possible thanks to the amazing team.
A big Thanks to the team @huggingface.
---xxx---

20) In NLP, we scrape data from the web to train big models.
What are the dangers of this?
We show that adversaries can poison datasets to control models.
We cause:
- sentiment models to love Trump
- LMs to hate the iPhone
- MT models to error

Paper: http://ericswallace.com/poisoning
[1/7]